# ansible-playbooks

Welcome to the Ansible Playbooks Library! This collection of YAML files has been crafted to automate the preparation and configuration of both Apple and Windows devices. Ansible provides a powerful and flexible automation framework, and these playbooks leverage its capabilities to streamline the setup process for various tasks on diverse platforms.

Key Features
Cross-Platform Compatibility: The playbooks are designed to seamlessly work on both Apple and Windows devices, providing a unified automation solution for diverse environments.

Task-specific Playbooks: Each playbook is tailored to address specific tasks, ensuring modularity and allowing users to easily integrate and customize automation for their unique requirements.

Idempotent Execution: Ansible ensures idempotent execution, meaning that running the playbook multiple times results in the same state, reducing the risk of unintended changes and ensuring reliability.

Documentation: Detailed documentation is provided for each playbook, offering insights into the purpose, usage, and potential customization options for better understanding on the playbooks processes.

Getting Started
Install Ansible: Ensure Ansible is installed on your control machine. Refer to the official Ansible installation guide for instructions.

Clone the Repository: Clone this repository to your ansible server using the following command:

git clone https://github.com/PaleElric/ansible-playbooks.git
Navigate to Playbooks: Enter the directory containing the playbooks:

cd ansible-playbook
Run Playbooks: Execute the desired playbook using the ansible-playbook command. For example:

ansible-playbook master_playbook.yml

Customize: Review the playbook documentation and customize parameters as needed to suit your environment.

# Checksum Verification with Python Script

To enhance the security and integrity of the files provided in this Ansible Playbook Library, a Python script has been included to automatically verify checksums for specific applications. The script, located in the checksum_verification directory, utilizes the requests library for file retrieval and hashlib for calculating SHA-256 checksums. The targeted applications include popular software such as Slack, Zoom, and others.

Additionally, it's considered a best practice to incorporate additional security measures such as antivirus scanning into the workflow to ensure comprehensive security. Antivirus scanning can help detect and mitigate any potential threats or malicious code that might be present in the downloaded files, further enhancing the security posture of the automation environment.

The checksums generated by the script are saved to individual text files for each application within the border_control directory. These can be used to verify the integrity of downloaded files before deploying them, adding an extra layer of confidence in the authenticity of the software being automated. The script can also be easily extended to include additional applications or modified as needed for specific use cases, ensuring its adaptability and scalability over time.

# ClamAV

Enhance your Ansible playbook installations with the ClamAV Ansible library for heightened security. Integrate the library to add antivirus scanning capabilities to your playbook execution, ensuring that the files being transferred and installed are free from malware. By incorporating ClamAV into your workflow, you can confidently deploy packages and files while mitigating the risk of potential threats. Strengthen your infrastructure's defenses with this seamless integration of antivirus checks, fortifying your systems against malicious content.

```
- name: Install ClamAV
      become: yes
      package:
        name: clamav
        state: present

- name: Scan downloaded file with ClamAV
      command: clamscan --stdout "{{ download_path }}"
      register: clamav_result
      changed_when: false

- name: Fail if virus found
      fail:
        msg: "Virus detected in the downloaded file!"
      when: "'FOUND' in clamav_result.stdout"
```

In this example:

The playbook first installs ClamAV on the target system.
It then scans a file named "example.pkg" using ClamAV's clamscan command.
The output of the scan is stored in the variable clamav_result.
If the word "FOUND" is present in the output (indicating a virus was detected), the playbook fails with a message indicating that a virus was found in the downloaded file.
